>> Scott Moss: All right, so we're going
to continue working on this example.
This one was pretty complicated because
it was like so much mental overhead,
so many like things you had to
follow in order to understand it.
Or you could have just
ignored all of that and
just like focused on just populating
that field and try to work it.
Either way,
it's gonna be difficult because we
didn't really talk about population.
So either way, it was a difficult
thing but let's jump right into it.
First thing is, I went ahead and
I enabled users on this one.
So if you wanna use users
just make sure you pull from
upstream of the solution,
the lesson 13 solution.
So you can use users as well.
I'll walk you through how I enabled that
but let's just start with the playlist.
So let's go over to resources playlist and
we'll look at the playlist resolver.
>> Scott Moss: And what I'm gonna do is
pull open the playlists graphQL as well,
okay.
I just don't wanna put them
in both places, all right.
>> Scott Moss: There we go.
So if we go down to,
>> Scott Moss: I'm sorry, if we stay right
here on this playlist type, again,
we have songs, which is an array of songs.
I wanna query that that I wanna be able
to query the songs inside of that.
So in order to resolve that, we make a
nested resolver, and this is how I did it.
So the first thing is on the playlist
type, which matches this playlist type,
I want to resolve the songs
field which matches this field.
And it should return
an array of song types.
So the way I did it is this playlist,
the root value that's passed in
is always going to be a document.
And the reason I know that
is because this field
resolver never gets resolved until
the playlist before it gets resolved.
So then you just go look to see okay,
how do I know exactly what this is.
Well, I'll just go look at every
point where we resolve a playlist and
they're all up here.
Each time we resolve a playlist
it's always a document.
That's a document.
That's a document, that's a document.
It's always a document.
So I'm pretty confident this is
always going to be a document.
Because this songs is a branch of this.
And so far in our app this is
the only way you can get a playlist,
is one of these four methods.
And they all return the same thing,
a playlist document.
Follow me so far?
>> Scott Moss: Okay, so
now that I have that if it's
a document I could look up,
>> Scott Moss: Populations
documents mongoose.
And I can go here.
>> Scott Moss: And
I can scroll a little bit,
until I find
>> Scott Moss: This thing,
Document#populate, okay, cool.
And it'll take me here.
It's like, populates document references
executing the callback when complete.
If you want promises use execute populate,
so cool.
Basically what we would do,
is we would take our document.
We would call doc.populate on it,
with the field that we want to populate.
The field that we want to
populate on a song model
>> Scott Moss: I'm sorry,
on a playlist model, is also called songs.
We want to populate this field.
This is why we have an ID
with a reference of song.
What population does is, for each of these
IDs, it's gonna go to this model and
query it, and
find the object pertaining to that.
It's gonna go to this model,
like find by ID for all these IDs, and
put them in this array.
That's what it's gonna do.
So we'll get back an array of objects,
versus an array of strings,
so we'll populate it.
And then we can call .execPopulate() which
returns a promise and we like promises.
>> Scott Moss: So
that's what I'm doing here.
I'm saying cool, I've got the playlist.
I'm going to call populate on it.
I'm gonna populate this songs array.
This array of strings,
I want to populate it.
I wanna inflate it with the data.
I wanna rehydrate it.
And then I want to call execPopulate, or
execute populate, which returns a promise,
which allows me to do await,
which is why I have async in front of it.
And the one important
part to remember is that
this returns the entire document
with the populated field on it.
I only just want that field,
so I'm going to return that.
This is now an array of objects now.
Everybody following me?
This playlist was a playlist document
with an array of strings for songs.
It is now a playlist document
with an array of objects for
songs and
I'm just returning that array of objects.
And luckily enough,
GraphQL is smart enough to know that,
hey you return an array of songs.
Here is your array of songs.
And then for each one of those songs in
the array, it's gonna go to the song type,
it is now gonna go over here.
And it's gonna be like, okay cool.
Now those better match this and
they have to match that.
And by default they do because we made our
type exactly the same in the database as
it is in GraphQL, right?
But if it didn't, it would look on this
resolver to resolve these properties.
So if this thing had something nested on
it like things and it pointed to thing,
it would then try to resolve that.
And over and over and over and over and
over again, until it got to the end.
So it's pretty crazy, so that's that and
then for getting the users to work,
basically all I did was,
>> Scott Moss: I went to the config.
I disabled authentication for dev mode.
So up with disableAuth true.
I disabled the authentication.
The next thing I did was, I added
the authentication middleware that
we had before for the restRouter.
Also put in front of our graphQLRouter.
We're going to talk more about this but,
it does the same thing.
This is like, check the JWT.
If there is a JWT,
decode it, attach a user.
But I turned authentication off,
so why would I need this?
Well, that's because inside of
that file it's checking to see if
authentication is off.
If it's off, if the authentication is off
using our configuration driven config,
it's just gonna call next so
it won't try to decode a token.
And then where would normally
attach a user from the token
if it's off it'll delete our
user from the database and
then just create a user on the fly,
attach it to req.user and call next.
So now we have req.user inside of our
resolvers, so it's a little cheap way.
Obviously you would never
do this in production.
Just don't do this in production.
This is just so
we can use users because I wanted to
show like a completely nested solution.
So because we have that,
we can go look at the user resolver.
So if you got past the first one
you can go to user resolver and
the other thing was to resolve
the playlist for the user.
We don't have any associations
with users and playlist so
this one was pretty simple.
Just returned all
the places in a database.
There's no association with the users and
playlists with at this point.
But I do need to set up for
the user type when you ask for
the playlist field I want to return
all the playlists in the database.
And then these playlists are playlist
types which have songs which then gets
resolved.
So you'll see in a minute
how all that works.
And then we'll come back and
we'll do some logs.
And then we can follow it so
you all can see how GraphQL is
walking through these resolvers.
And you can see step by
step what's going on.
So let's run this.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, nothing broke,
that's always a good feeling.
We'll refresh this.
And the first thing is let's start
with let's get allPlaylists.
And allPlaylists returns what?
Array of playlists.
An array of playlists, exactly,
so this array of playlists.
For each playlist I wanna get the ID and
I wanna get the title.
Let's just make sure that works.
Cool.
We got one playlist.
It has an ID.
There's the title.
Now, I wanna see if I have some songs.
So I'm also gonna come in here and
I'm gonna just, right underneath here,
I'm gonna say all songs.
And I'm gonna get the ID and
I'm gonna get the title.
Cool, we do have songs.
I also believe this song
belongs to this playlist.
I think that's how I set
it up in the database.
So, let's just, let's verify that.
So, I'm gonna see if I can get
the songs for this playlist.
So, I'm gonna, now I'm gonna come here,
I'm gonna say songs.
songs is an array of
strings in the database.
But because we set up a resolver to
resolve those strings I should be able to
come in here and
say now I want to get the title of that.
And I can.
You see that?
That's where that resolver came in.
It knew that to get songs,
I got to run that function.
That function populates it and
puts it in there.
So you can imagine if songs had
another field on it like things
we can come here like okay, now for
things, I wanna get the ID.
And things has a user, and then for
user, I wanna get the thing.
Like, you understand what I mean?
You can go on forever and ever and ever,
as long as you just eventually
resolve every type.
You don't need to know
how it's being called.
You just need to resolve every type,
and you're done.
GraphQL will figure out how it’s called.
And we’re going to see
that in a little bit.
>> Scott Moss: So, we got that.
Cool.
Now, I want to take it a step further.
And I want to get all the playlists for
the users and,
then get all the songs on
those playlists from the user.
So let's say you have a music app.
You just logged the user in.
All of the sudden, the first thing you
want to display is all their playlists and
underneath every playlist,
the top five songs, right?
So you need one query
that gets all of that.
So I'm like cool.
First I want to getMe,
which is gonna get the user.
Let's verify that works with my auth.
That works.
There's me, here's my username.
Okay, so I got the user.
Now I want to get all the playlists
associated with this user, so
I'm going to do that.
I got that.
And now I'm going to get all the songs
associated with that playlist,
which is the id and the title.
And now I got that.
>> Scott Moss: It's pretty crazy, right?
We didn't set this up
this way in the backend.
I didn't know that somebody would
come in and ask for a user and
then a playlist and then a song.
All I did was a song?
This is how you resolve that.
A playlist?
A user?
This is how you resolve that.
Figure it out, GraphQL.
And that's all I did.
Right, it's pretty magical, right?
So this is like the beauty of GraphQL.
So you can see where it's like,
if a song refered their playlist,
then this would be recursive.
Cuz then I went, cool, cool.
I want the playlist
that this song belongs.
And then I want all
the songs of this playlist.
And then I want the playlist
that this song belongs to.
You see what I mean?
And then it will just keep going on and
on and on, so You don't wanna do that.
Any questions on this?
It's crazy I know.
It's not gonna know that you have a loop
there and prevent you from doing it?
No.
You think it would but No, it wouldn't.
I think it's good that it doesn't, because
it encourages you to build better stuff.
And then it can't really make any
assumptions like maybe you want that.
Maybe you you want to go 20 levels deep,
I don't know.
I don't think it should make assumptions.
I'm not saying it's a good idea.
I'm saying, maybe you do want that.
Maybe you're literally trying to show an
example of how bad of an idea this is and
you want to show that.
I don't know.
What I'm saying is that
if it starts doing that,
I think it starts to make assumptions
about your app and the whole point
of our GraphiOL is that it just sits here
and it does not care what is under here.
It just does not care, and
I think that's the beauty of it.
If it starts like, well actually,
we're gonna start looking in here, and
seeing to make sure you're only
doing this a couple times.
I think it starts, it gets at a point
where it's like, it's reaching too much,
and it's losing a little
bit of its flexibility.
But it does provide you with the tools so
that you can do it yourself.
I've broken so
many people's graph API's just doing that.
I'm like okay.
Here check it out.
I've broke it and emailed them.
I'm like look and they're like yeah,
I need to fix that.
>> Scott Moss: It's really easy to fix.
Just don't have bad data modeling.
Don't denormalize your data.
So a graph is flat.
You guys know data structures, right?
So you have a graph, it's flat,
but then you have nodes and
edges that point to each other?
So if you just make sure all
your data's flat, you're fine.
Just don't have double-references to
two things that reference each other
trying to get data.
Don't have a playlist referencing a song
and a song referencing a playlist.
Just do either one, and you're fine.
You'll never have this problem,
and then you're good.
Now if you do that,
let's just bat datamon and
you should probably just take a step back.
>> Scott Moss: Any
questions on this stuff?
>> Scott Moss: Well, what if you
wanna find like every playlist in
which a song is Isn't included.
Every playlist that which a song is put,
so
then what you would do is you would
probably make a different query for that.
No I mean that would be
a scenario on which you have.
Like this kind of midi
to midi relationship.
You have it in your database but
that doesn't mean you have to expose for
your GraphiQL.
You might have a midi
to midi in your data.
That's totally fine,
I'm not saying don't do that.
I'm saying when you expose it to GraphiQL,
The way I will get around that is I
would have like, you know, play list for
song and then you pass in a song ID and
then it would go do that.
Versus like, somebody trying to like
explore it, you know what I mean?
I would make a query for that.
Yeah.
That makes sense.
>> Scott Moss: Any other
questions on this.
>> Scott Moss: So when I first saw this,
I thought it was the coolest thing
I've ever seen in my life, right?
Coming from REST and stuff,
I was just like, what, what is that?
That's pretty cool.
So there's a lot more
stuff you can do here.
What you learned today was
60% to 70% of GraphQL, and
you can go your whole life writing GraphQL
with just this and you'll be fine.
There's other stuff that's out there.
But that stuff is mostly associated with
client side, so you've got fragments, you
got interfaces, you have directives,
which you almost never have to
use unless you're doing some pretty crazy
stuff, there's a lot of other stuff but
you don't really have to use any of that
stuff, you can go far with just this.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, so
let's move onto the next thing,